We saw in the previous sections that the calculations of time metrics in GA can
be a little complicated and may not always reflect user engagement accurately.
We always want to remember to use the time metrics comparatively in GA.
In this section, we're going to compare average time
on page for pages that are supposed to have similar purpose.
We'll also compare average session duration for a number of sessions scope dimensions.
Then we'll switch gears and we'll compare different metrics across two date ranges.
On the Google merchandise store,
there are many different types of product pages.
If we navigate to apparel, kid's,
we see that there are several onesies available for the very little people in our lives.
In the all pages report of the merchandise store demo account,
if we filter for onesie and switch to
the comparison display and select average time on page as our comparison metric,
we can see how the different onesie pages are
performing in terms of average time on page.
I'm actually going to go ahead and modify
the filter and clean this report up a little bit more.
I'm going to exclude page containing.axd.
The general take-away that I get from this is that folks might be more
interested in dressing their babies up in colors than in just white or gray.
If we navigate to the landing pages report,
we can see how our different shop by brand pages are performing,
in terms of average session duration.
Again, in this case,
the landing page would be beginning
the session that the average session duration applies to.
Shop by brand and we'll escape
the plus signs as we learned about in our regular expression discussion.
Let's also switch over to comparison,
change a comparison metric to average session duration.
We can see that there are many more sessions
starting than the Google or Android shop by brand pages.
But we do see that the average session duration is a lot lower for
YouTube than for Google or Android shop by brand pages.
So there could potentially be the beginning of an optimization opportunity there.
If we navigate to source medium,
we can also see a broad range of values for average session duration.
Average session duration, therefore,
can be one of the metrics that we're using to
evaluate the quality of the sessions that originate from the different source mediums.
We're now going to switch gears and talk about a different type of time comparison,
actually selecting two different time periods in the GA UI.
So far, we've had January 1st to March 31st, 2018 selected.
For this example, I'm going to start by selecting April 2018.
If we want to select the whole month,
we just have to click April 2018. Click apply.
Comparing to the same time period
the previous year can be a very valid approach to take as part of our analysis.
If we click the time selection drop-down,
and we click compare to,
we may be tempted to select previous year.
Let's go ahead and do that.
But we notice an issue.
There is a one-day offset in the time periods.
The days of week are not aligned.
Whenever it's possible, we want to try to align days of
the week in the time periods that we're comparing.
Ideally, we don't want to compare five Sundays to four Sundays.
So let's adjust our time selection. Click the drop-down.
We'll change the compare-to period to April 2nd through May 1st of the previous year.
Click apply. Now, with the date offset by one day,
we can see that the days of the week are perfectly aligned.
With the time comparison applied,
there's a lot of data in the report.
So let's filter the report down to a single source medium.
Since we're paying for Google CPC traffic,
let's see how that is performing,
this April versus the most closely corresponding time period in the previous year.
Basic table filter.
If we look at the performance metrics,
we see that bounce rate is actually up significantly, April 2018.
Session duration is down and e-commerce conversion rate is down.
With the two different time periods selected,
we can compare time metrics,
but we can compare other metrics as well.